Item            Description
//--------------------Berries--------------------//
Aspear Berry	If held by a Pokémon, it defrosts it.
Cheri Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from paralysis.
Chesto Berry	If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from sleep.
Leppa Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it restores a move's PP by 10.
Lum Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from any status problem.
Oran Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it heals the user by just 10 HP.
Pecha Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from poison.
Persim Berry	If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from confusion.
Rawst Berry		If held by a Pokémon, it recovers from a burn.
Sitrus Berry	If held by a Pokémon, it will be used in battle to restore 30 HP.

//-----------------Type Boosters-----------------//
Black Belt		Increases the power of Fighting-type moves.
Black Glasses	Increases the power of Dark-type moves.
Charcoal		Increases the power of Fire-type moves.
Dragon Fang	    Increases the power of Dragon-type moves.
Hard Stone		Increases the power of Rock-type moves.
Magnet	    	Increases the power of Electric-type moves.
Metal Coat  	Increases the power of Steel-type moves.
Miracle Seed	Increases the power of Grass-type moves.
Mystic Water	Increases the power of Water-type moves.
Never-Melt Ice	Increases the power of Ice-type moves.
Poison Barb		Increases the power of Poison-type moves.
Sharp Beak		Increases the power of Flying-type moves.
Silk Scarf		Increases the power of Normal-type moves.
Silver Powder	Increases the power of Bug-type moves.
Soft Sand		Increases the power of Ground-type moves.
Spell Tag		Increases the power of Ghost-type moves.
Twisted Spoon	Increases the power of Psychic-type moves.

//---------------------Orbs----------------------//
Flame Orb		When held, inflicts a burn on the holder in battle.
Life Orb		Increases the power of moves, but the user loses 1/10 of their max HP each turn.
Toxic Orb		When held, badly poisons the holder in battle.

//--------------------Others---------------------//
Choice Band		Raises Attack, but only one move can be used.
Choice Scarf	Raises Speed, but only one move can be used.
Choice Specs	Raises Special Attack, but only one move can be used.
Eviolite		When held, raises the Defense and Sp. Def of a Pokémon that can still evolve.
Focus Band		When held, The holder may endure a potential KO attack, leaving it with just 1 HP.
Focus Sash	    When held, If it has full HP, the holder will endure one potential KO attack, leaving 1 HP.
King's Rock		May cause opponent to flinch when attacked.
Lava Cookie		Heals all major status conditions.
Leftovers	    When held, The holder's HP is gradually restored during battle.
Power Herb		When held, allows the immediate use of a move that charges on the first turn.
Quick Claw		An item to be held by a Pokémon. A light, sharp claw that lets the bearer move first occasionally.
Rocky Helmet	If the holder of this item takes damage, the attacker will also be damaged upon contact.
Scope Lens		Increases critical-hit ratio.
Shell Bell		An item to be held by a Pokémon. The holder's HP is restored a little every time it inflicts damage.
Wide Lens		Increases the accuracy of moves.
Zoom Lens		Raises a move's accuracy if the holder moves after its target.
