Paralyzed
A paralyzed Pokémon has a 25% chance of not being 
able to attack every turn and their Speed is 
decreased by 50%. The status remains after battle 
like other major status ailments. Paralysis can 
be cured with a Parlyz Heal, a Cheri Berry, or a 
Lum Berry. Electric type Pokémon cannot be 
paralyzed, nor can Pokémon that have the ability 
Limber or those behind a Substitute.

Poisoned
A poisoned Pokémon loses a set amount of HP every 
turn. If the effect remains after the battle, the 
Pokémon will lose HP as the Trainer walks 
(1 HP of damage for every 4 steps), but after 
Pokémon Black and White there is no longer this 
effect. It can be cured with an Antidote, a 
PSNCureBerry, a Pecha Berry, or a Lum Berry. 
Poison and Steel type Pokémon cannot be poisoned, 
nor can Pokémon that have the ability Immunity or 
this behind a Substitute.

Badly Poisoned
A badly poisoned Pokémon is damaged every turn, 
but this damage increases over time. The first 
turn, the poisoned Pokémon takes 1/16 of the 
maximum HP in damage. That damage increases by 
an additional 1/16 of the max HP each turn. 
After a battle is over, the poisoned Pokémon will 
take damage (just like regular Poisoning). It can 
be cured with an Antidote, a PSNCureBerry, or a 
Pecha Berry. Poison and Steel type Pokémon cannot 
be poisoned, nor can Pokémon that have the ability 
Immunity or those behind a Substitute.

Burned
Burned Pokémon loose 1/8 of their maximum HP at 
the end of each turn in addition having their 
Attack stat reduced by 50%.  Burned Pokémon can 
be healed with Burn Heal, an Ice Berry, a Kuo 
Berry, or a Rawst Berry. Fire type Pokémon cannot 
be burned, nor can Pokémon with the ability Water 
Veil or those behind a Substitute.

Frozen
A frozen Pokémon cannot attack, but it can thaw 
out in a few turns. Fire type attacks can thaw 
out a frozen Pokémon more easily. Moves such as 
Flame Wheel, Flare Blitz and Sacred Fire can be 
used even if the user is frozen; these moves will
thaw out the user. Ice type Pokémon cannot be 
frozen, and neither can Pokémon with the ability 
Magma Armor. A frozen Pokémon can be healed with 
Ice Heal, a Burnt Berry, or an Aspear Berry.

Flinch
A condition where the affected Pokémon is unable 
to use moves or attack during the turn it is 
affected. Usually occurs as a possible secondary 
effect (for moves like Bite). There is no cure 
other than waiting for the next turn. It will not 
affect a Pokémon with the ability Inner Focus. 
The item King's Rock occasionally causes an 
opponent to flinch when the Pokémon holding it 
uses an attack move.

//--------------Exception Statuses--------------//

Confused
Once confused, a Pokémon will remain so for 1 to 
4 turns, and during those turns have a 50% chance 
of damaging themselves and being unable to 
perform any other action for that turn. This 
status effect can be used even if the Pokémon is 
inflicted with another status condition, like 
Paralysis or Burn. Confusion can be healed by 
switching out the confused Pokémon. It can also 
be cured by using a Persim Berry, a Bitter Berry, 
a Full Heal, or the Yellow Flute. Pokémon with 
the ability Own Tempo cannot be confused.

Infatuation
The Pokémon becomes infatuated with the opponent 
(who must be of an opposing gender) and is under 
a condition similar to confusion. It can be cured 
with a Mental Herb or a Red Flute. Pokémon with 
the ability Oblivious cannot become infatuated. 
There are two causes of infatuation: Attract and 
the ability Cute Charm.

Leech Seed
The Pokémon loses 1/16th of his/her HP each turn, 
and the opponent gains what was lost, essentially 
having the same affect as a weaker, but continuous, 
Absorb. Some Grass type Pokémon cannot be 
re-seeded. Once Seeded, switching, fainting, using 
such moves as Rapid Spin will remove this.